# 3. Nominate Champions
Okay, so the roles are defined, now it's the time to nominate the Champions!
In order to smoothly pass this step, you should first get approvals from the management
on all levels - from top management to product owners down to direct team managers.
Even though this is classical "top-down approach", it's an extremely important part, as
it ensures that the worst argument you can hear: *__"I had no time for security"__*,
is fixed. Make a presentation of defined roles, benefits for the team, and approximate
time Champion would spend on the security tasks - 20% should be enough for the beginning.

Once the approvals are obtained, the next step would be to identify potential Champions.
Sit down together with team manager, select the candidates and conduct mini-interviews
with each of them. Remember - it's not _appointing_ but nominating! Describe the role,
expectations and strategy, and show them personal benefits of becoming a Champion:
* self-development and ability to look at things differently
* increase of his/her value on the market
* improving quality of the product
* attending security conferences
* becoming an important part of the security meta-team
* having fun :)

In the worst case scenario, ask team manager for help to find one - although hopefully
you'll get the Champion right after the first presentation.

Final step here would be official nomination - add him to the meta security team page,
replacing interim "security contact" with "Security Champion"
(see [Phase 1](1.%20Identify%20teams.md)), think of some sort "insignia" like [mugs](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/DinisCruz/Book_SecDevOps_Risk_Workflow/bb919b1d48243743bb94e2a6708dba8ad4f3e249/content/2.Risk-workflow/Security-champions/If-you-dont-have-an-sc-get-a-mug/images/Security-champion-mug.jpg), and
introduce the novice to the others.

[<< Previous page](2.%20Define%20the%20role.md) | [Main page](../README.md) | [Next page >>](4.%20Set%20up%20communication%20channels.md)
| --- | --- | --- |
